docs/main.md, before:

% CTF
% Daniel Hiller
% \today
\tableofcontents
\newpage

# CTF

## Introduction

### Contributing

**Found an error or have a suggestion?** Please open an issue on GitHub ([github.com/dentremor/Software-Defined-Infrastrucure](https://github.com/dentremor/Software-Defined-Infrastrucure)):

![QR code to source repository](./static/qr.png){ width=150px }

### License

![AGPL-3.0 license badge](https://www.gnu.org/graphics/agplv3-155x51.png){ width=128px }

Software Defined Infrastructure (c) 2021 Daniel Hiller and contributors

SPDX-License-Identifier: AGPL-3.0
\newpage


## Exploiting Network Services

### GitHub Repos
SecLists: https://github.com/danielmiessler/SecLists

### Bash
Run a ```bashscript``` with persistent permissions:
``` bash
$ ./bashscript -p
```
```text
*(-p   = persists the permissions)
```

### Find
```Find``` a file in a specific directory:
```bash
$ find / -name "*smtp_version*"
```
```text
*(/       = directory where the search recursively starts
  -name   = only show matching results
  [para]  = search-parameter to match)
```

### SSH
Authenticate via ssh with the key-file ```id_rsa```:
``` bash
$ ssh -i id_rsa user@10.10.10.10
```
```text
*(-i [file]  = Identity file)
```


### NMAP
Checks open ports in defined range and check running services with ```Nmap```:
```bash
$ nmap 10.10.221.8 -sV -p 0-60000
```
```text
*(-p   = Specific port or portrange
  -sV  = Attempts to determine the version of the service running on port
  -A   = Enables OS detection, version detection, script scanning and traceroute)
```

### FTP
Download a File from an FTP-Server with ```Wget```:
```bash
$ wget -m ftp://user:password@ftp.example.com
```
```text
*(-m = --mirror)
```

#### Hydra
Use ```Hydra``` for cracking password in our example on an FTP-Service:
```bash
$ hydra -t 4 -l dale -P /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt -vV 10.10.10.6 ftp
```
```text
*(-t 4      = Number of parallel connections per target
  -l [user] = Points to the user who's account you're trying to compromise
  -P [file] = Points to the file containing the list of possible passwords
  -vV       = Very verbose: shows the login+pass combination for each attempt
  [IP]      = The IP address of the target machine
  [ftp]     = Sets the protocol)
```

### NFS
List name or ```NFS``` shares:
```bash
$ /usr/sbin/showmount -e [IP]
```
```text
*(-e    = Shows the NSF server's export list
  [IP]  = The IP Address of the NFS server)
```

Connect ```NFS``` share with mount point on our machine:
```bash
$ sudo mount -t nfs IP:share /tmp/mount/ -nolock
```
```text
*(-t nfs    = Type of device to mount, then specifying that it's NFS
  IP:share  = The IP Address of the NFS server, and the name of the share we wish to mount
  -nolock   = Specifies not to use NLM locking)
```

### SMTP
There a three relevant commands, when it comes to ```SMTP```:
```text
(VRFY    = Confirming the names of valid users
 EXPN    = Reveals the actual address of user’s aliases and lists of e-mail (mailing lists)
 RCPT TO = Specifies the e-mail address of the recipient)
```

### Metasploit
```text
*(search [name]                 = Search for a module and his description
  use [name]                    = Selects a module by name
  options                       = When a module is selected we will see the options of the module
  set [option] [parameter]      = Set a specific option with a specific parameter
  run                           = Run the exploit)
```
For further information see the following documentation: 
https://www.offensive-security.com/metasploit-unleashed/msfconsole-commands/


### MySQL
First we need a client, which is in our case ```default-mysql-client```:
```bash 
$ mysql -h [IP] -u [username] -p
```
```text
*(-h [IP]        = Connect to the MariaDB server on the given host
  -u [username]  = The MariaDB user name to use when connecting to the server
  -p             = The password to use when connecting to the server)
```

If we do not have any credentials we can use ```Nmap``` or ```Metasplot``` to gain this information:
```Nmap```
```bash
$ nmap --script=mysql-enum [target]
```
```text
*(--script=mysql-enum           = Scan with a single script: mysql-enum
  [target]                      = The IP address of the target)
```

Now that we know some usernames of the database, we can try to crack the passwords of them with ```Hydra```:
```bash
hydra -t 16 -l root -P /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt -vV 10.10.6.199 mysql
```
```text
*(-t 16     = Number of parallel connections per target
  -l [user] = Points to the user who's account you're trying to compromise
  -P [file] = Points to the file containing the list of possible passwords
  -vV       = Very verbose: shows the login+pass combination for each attempt
  [IP]      = The IP address of the target machine
  [mysql]   = Sets the protocol)
```

### Jon the Ripper
If we have a hash which look something like the following example:
```
carl:*EA031893AA21444B170FC2162A56978B8CEECE18
```
We can pipe the hash in a file:
```bash
$ echo carl:*EA031893AA21444B170FC2162A56978B8CEECE18 > hash.txt
```
And crack the password with ```John the Ripper``` (In ```Kali``` the bash has some problem to execute the package, so we do it by our self):
```bash
$ john hash.txt
or
$ /usr/sbin/john hash.txt
```

## Web Fundamentals

### Curl
If we want to get sources of a webpage, we can do this with ```Curl```:
```bash
$ curl -X GET http://10.10.4.59:8081/ctf/post
```
```text
*(-X [GET]          = Set kind of fetch
  [target]          = The URL of the webpage we want to fetch
  -d [param]        = Sends the specified data in a POST  request  to  the HTTP server)
```

Commit message:

feat: Add notes for QEMU

docs/main.md, after:

% CTF
% Daniel Hiller
% \today
\tableofcontents
\newpage

# CTF

## Introduction

### Contributing

**Found an error or have a suggestion?** Please open an issue on GitHub ([github.com/dentremor/Software-Defined-Infrastrucure](https://github.com/dentremor/Software-Defined-Infrastrucure)):

![QR code to source repository](./static/qr.png){ width=150px }

### License

![AGPL-3.0 license badge](https://www.gnu.org/graphics/agplv3-155x51.png){ width=128px }

Software Defined Infrastructure (c) 2021 Daniel Hiller and contributors

SPDX-License-Identifier: AGPL-3.0
\newpage

## VM

### QEMU

To create a disk image run the following command:
```bash
qemu-img create -f qcow2 disk.qcow2 64G
```

The VM can be executed with a bashscript (remove Image.iso with the distro image of your choice):
```bash
#!/bin/bash

qemu-system-x86_64 -enable-kvm -m 4096 -smp $(nproc) -cpu host -device ac97 -audiodev alsa,id=snd0,out.buffer-length=500000,out.period-length=726 -display default,show-cursor=on -usb -device usb-tablet -device virtio-keyboard-pci -net nic -net user -cdrom Image.iso -device virtio-vga,virgl=on -display sdl,gl=on -hda disk.qcow2 -bios /usr/share/edk2/ovmf/OVMF_CODE.fd
```

If you also have a 4k-panel, you probably will face some scaling issues like me. In that case make sure you use ```Wayland``` instead of ```X11```.

## Exploiting Network Services

### GitHub Repos
SecLists: https://github.com/danielmiessler/SecLists

### Bash
Run a ```bashscript``` with persistent permissions:
``` bash
$ ./bashscript -p
```
```text
*(-p   = persists the permissions)
```

### Find
```Find``` a file in a specific directory:
```bash
$ find / -name "*smtp_version*"
```
```text
*(/       = directory where the search recursively starts
  -name   = only show matching results
  [para]  = search-parameter to match)
```

### SSH
Authenticate via ssh with the key-file ```id_rsa```:
``` bash
$ ssh -i id_rsa user@10.10.10.10
```
```text
*(-i [file]  = Identity file)
```


### NMAP
Checks open ports in defined range and check running services with ```Nmap```:
```bash
$ nmap 10.10.221.8 -sV -p 0-60000
```
```text
*(-p   = Specific port or portrange
  -sV  = Attempts to determine the version of the service running on port
  -A   = Enables OS detection, version detection, script scanning and traceroute)
```

### FTP
Download a File from an FTP-Server with ```Wget```:
```bash
$ wget -m ftp://user:password@ftp.example.com
```
```text
*(-m = --mirror)
```

#### Hydra
Use ```Hydra``` for cracking password in our example on an FTP-Service:
```bash
$ hydra -t 4 -l dale -P /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt -vV 10.10.10.6 ftp
```
```text
*(-t 4      = Number of parallel connections per target
  -l [user] = Points to the user who's account you're trying to compromise
  -P [file] = Points to the file containing the list of possible passwords
  -vV       = Very verbose: shows the login+pass combination for each attempt
  [IP]      = The IP address of the target machine
  [ftp]     = Sets the protocol)
```

### NFS
List name or ```NFS``` shares:
```bash
$ /usr/sbin/showmount -e [IP]
```
```text
*(-e    = Shows the NSF server's export list
  [IP]  = The IP Address of the NFS server)
```

Connect ```NFS``` share with mount point on our machine:
```bash
$ sudo mount -t nfs IP:share /tmp/mount/ -nolock
```
```text
*(-t nfs    = Type of device to mount, then specifying that it's NFS
  IP:share  = The IP Address of the NFS server, and the name of the share we wish to mount
  -nolock   = Specifies not to use NLM locking)
```

### SMTP
There a three relevant commands, when it comes to ```SMTP```:
```text
(VRFY    = Confirming the names of valid users
 EXPN    = Reveals the actual address of user’s aliases and lists of e-mail (mailing lists)
 RCPT TO = Specifies the e-mail address of the recipient)
```

### Metasploit
```text
*(search [name]                 = Search for a module and his description
  use [name]                    = Selects a module by name
  options                       = When a module is selected we will see the options of the module
  set [option] [parameter]      = Set a specific option with a specific parameter
  run                           = Run the exploit)
```
For further information see the following documentation: 
https://www.offensive-security.com/metasploit-unleashed/msfconsole-commands/


### MySQL
First we need a client, which is in our case ```default-mysql-client```:
```bash 
$ mysql -h [IP] -u [username] -p
```
```text
*(-h [IP]        = Connect to the MariaDB server on the given host
  -u [username]  = The MariaDB user name to use when connecting to the server
  -p             = The password to use when connecting to the server)
```

If we do not have any credentials we can use ```Nmap``` or ```Metasplot``` to gain this information:
```Nmap```
```bash
$ nmap --script=mysql-enum [target]
```
```text
*(--script=mysql-enum           = Scan with a single script: mysql-enum
  [target]                      = The IP address of the target)
```

Now that we know some usernames of the database, we can try to crack the passwords of them with ```Hydra```:
```bash
hydra -t 16 -l root -P /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt -vV 10.10.6.199 mysql
```
```text
*(-t 16     = Number of parallel connections per target
  -l [user] = Points to the user who's account you're trying to compromise
  -P [file] = Points to the file containing the list of possible passwords
  -vV       = Very verbose: shows the login+pass combination for each attempt
  [IP]      = The IP address of the target machine
  [mysql]   = Sets the protocol)
```

### Jon the Ripper
If we have a hash which look something like the following example:
```
carl:*EA031893AA21444B170FC2162A56978B8CEECE18
```
We can pipe the hash in a file:
```bash
$ echo carl:*EA031893AA21444B170FC2162A56978B8CEECE18 > hash.txt
```
And crack the password with ```John the Ripper``` (In ```Kali``` the bash has some problem to execute the package, so we do it by our self):
```bash
$ john hash.txt
```
or
```bash
$ /usr/sbin/john hash.txt
```

## Web Fundamentals

### Curl
If we want to get sources of a webpage, we can do this with ```Curl```:
```bash
$ curl -X GET http://10.10.4.59:8081/ctf/post
```
```text
*(-X [GET]          = Set kind of fetch
  [target]          = The URL of the webpage we want to fetch
  -d [param]        = Sends the specified data in a POST  request  to  the HTTP server)
```
